<h1>MazeGen</h1>
Interactive maze generator using genetic algorithm. Made in Unity/C#. <br>
Unity version: 2020.3.16f1


<h2>How it works</h2>
<h3>Choosing rules</h3>
<p>
The user selects a win condition and the types of tiles the maze will be composed of. Extra modifiers that change the behaviour of the tiles and the player can be selected.
</p>

<h3>Generator</h3>
<p>
First we generate a number of completely random mazes according to the rules inputed by the user. 
Than they are solved and assigned a fitness value corresponding to the number of steps needed to solve it. 
Next the mazes are sorted by their fitness value.
<br>
<br>
Now new mazes are generated by picking 2 from the the previous mazes (the ones with higher fitness have a higher chance to be picked) and recombined into a new one.
Than they are mutated (slight random change) and  a fitness value is attributed to them.
The list now including the old and new mazes is sorted and the last ones (mazes with lowest fitness) are removed. 
The process of generating new mazes by recombining them is repeated.
<br>
<br>
At the end the maze with the highest fitness is the one playable by the user.
</p>

<h3>Clean up</h3>
<p>
After the generator is done we are left with a maze that still might include tiles that are not necessary. 
In order to only keep tiles we really need, we go over all tiles and try to replace them with a simpler tile and solve the Maze again. 
In case this new maze has the same fitness as the original one we keep the former one. We repeat this process as long as a change was made and display the cleaned up version to the user.
</p>
